# OBD & ME
[Security](https://car-maintenance-senior-project.github.io/OBD-ME/security)   ||   [About](https://car-maintenance-senior-project.github.io/OBD-ME/about)

### Our semester status report

This semester, we have made a great deal of progress on our project, but it was a bit of a slow start. In September we had a general idea of what we wanted to do but no specific direction. It took some conversations with Professor Norman and bouncing ideas back and forth, but eventually we found a focus for our work. We decided to create a mobile app to interface with a car’s OBD port and present the data in a meaningful way to the user. We knew going in that OBD-type apps have been created before - the App Store and Google Play probably have dozens of them. However, most of these apps are built with “car-people” in mind and present as much data as possible. This can become overwhelming very quickly for someone that doesn’t know or care much about cars. As such we’re seeking to make this process easier to understand and less of a hassle for people that aren’t as familiar with cars and don’t need every single piece of information.
	
  Having determined our focus, we started making progress on designing and developing our app. Mockups were first produced for the main pages to use as guidelines during development. After that, the two of us sort of naturally split up the work between the two of us. Ty would take care of the initial front-end app and pages while Quentin’s focus would be on the back-end Bluetooth and OBD connection details. After a semester’s worth of work, we believe we have made a great deal of progress and are in a good position to make even more progress in the spring. We’ve followed our delivery dates quite well too. We hit every deadline this semester - basic app by October 28, initial connection by November 18, and basic info/vehicle testing by November 25. Looking ahead, the next major delivery - basic GPS functionality by February 10 - will probably have to be pushed back a few weeks, but other than that the rest of the dates should be doable. In summary, next semester we will be focusing on gathering more data, integrating maps/GPS functionality in some way(s), online data storage, filling out the rest of the app with features, and fixing any bugs we find.
	
  We also wanted to add a small note on security because that seems to be something that people are concerned with when it comes to an OBD device.  This is expected since the software in cars are not all that robust.  Everything in a car, from the radio and door locks to the engine RPM and steering are wired on a bus that spans the entire car.  All it takes is sending the right codes to make a car unlock the doors or speed up, and this can be done through the OBD port if you use certain devices.  However, the device that we’re using is called an OBD scanner which will refuse to send any data to the bus unless it is a request, and this is on top of the car ignition needing to be on before you can connect to the device.  Also, while there are occasional reports that vulnerabilities have been found in an OBD scanner, it has always been tied to a specific make and model of OBD scanner.  This is just a quick aside on security, but on our website there is more information about the security of OBD devices and why we aren’t worried about it for our project.
	
  Lastly, we want to note the code that has been written so far. We’ve been using the Ionic framework for this project, which means our project structure is primarily split up into pages and services. Ionic is web-based, which means the pages act like regular web pages do. Services are a bit of a different concept. They’re singletons that exist throughout the entirety of the project that various pages/classes/other services can access that provide continuity and connectivity throughout the app. During this first semester of development we’ve created six pages (home, vehicle info, maintenance records, add record, edit record, settings) and four services (dark theme, record storage, toast service, OBD connector). Of the six pages we have working, only one of them needs major work to get it to completion (it relies on gathering error codes from the vehicle, which we haven’t gotten to yet). The others are pretty much where we want them - minus some other small additions and fixes that will inevitably need to happen. The services are more of a work in progress and will probably end up being a greater focus for us in the spring - both fixing/updating our current ones and creating more. For example, the OBD connector service will eventually become more modular and easy to use, and we may even, if we have time, turn it into a plugin/package for ionic since currently there isn’t anything like that build for ionic yet.  Also, the record storage will hopefully move to use a Firebase cloud database instead of the local storage it’s currently using. 
	
  Overall, we believe that we’ve made great progress on this project in the time we have spent working. While it took us more time that we would’ve liked to get an initial focus and find our footing, the work done since then has been great. We’re looking forward to the spring and seeing how far we can get and how much more we can develop/implement by the time final presentations and reports roll around.
