### [Home](https://car-maintenance-senior-project.github.io/OBD-ME/index)		||		[Security](https://car-maintenance-senior-project.github.io/OBD-ME/security)		||		[Materials](https://car-maintenance-senior-project.github.io/OBD-ME/materials)		||		[About Us](https://car-maintenance-senior-project.github.io/OBD-ME/about)		||		[Our Code](https://github.com/Car-Maintenance-Senior-Project/OBD-ME)		||		[Calvin CS Department](https://computing.calvin.edu/)

## Notes on Security of OBD Devices

  There are 3 broad types of OBD tools.  The first is a reader that will read all the hex codes traveling over the bus. The second is a scanner, which is what we're using. A scanner queries the car (we think the main computer/hub), and that responds with the requested data. It is read only except for requests, and anything that isn't formatted as a valid request is dropped by the chip. These types of OBD devices can still be sniffed. However, there isn't any data that can be sniffed that you couldn't get by looking at the car or through the windows. There is an occasional report of finding a back door in specific devices. However, it has so far been isolated to specific device lines and not the primary OBD scanner chip (ELM327). Lastly, for anyone to even be able to interface with these devices, it would need to be either through Bluetooth or wire and the vehicle would have to be turned on. This imposes physical range limits, and on top of that Bluetooth even requires a password (though manufactures usually make it 1234 or something easy like that). The last type of device is an OBD spoofer (not the technical name for it, but these aren't exactly widely used for obvious security risks). Basically, these are the tools that allow you to actually control and affect your car. They pretend to be a part of your car and can be used to splice and add data to the bus.

  Last thing I want to say is that if someone actually wanted to hack your car, they most likely wouldn't do it through the OBD port. Most cars have much greater security risks than the OBD port since the system as a whole wasn't designed with safety in mind. There are examples of cars being able to be controlled over cellular from anywhere in the world. There are readily available wires that anyone can access on a car where all you have to do is connect a device smaller than the palm of your hand to be able to control the car. The point is, there are much simpler ways to hack a car than through an OBD scanner. The good news is that car manufacturers are starting to make security more of a priority, and currently, there are much cheaper ways to steal cars than by hacking them. So, the security risks that our app, by using an OBD scanner, provide are extremely small when compared to the risks that are already present in a car. We're also using proper data hiding methods in our app to keep it as secure as possible. While we do admit that the security isn't perfect, in our opinion the blame really falls on the car manufacturers for how lazy they've been when it comes to these security vulnerabilities.  
